Pizza is an Italian food that was created in Italy. Pizza is cooked in an oven. When cooked, it should be crispy, tender and fragrant. It is made with different toppings. Some of the most common toppings are cheese, sausages, pepperoni, vegetables, tomatoes, spices and herbs and basil. These toppings are added over a piece of bread covered with sauce. The sauce is most often tomato-based, but butter-based sauces are used, too. The base is usually called a "pizza crust". Almost any kind of topping can be put over a pizza. The toppings used are different in different parts of the world. Pizza comes from Italy from Neapolitan cuisine. However, it has become popular in many parts of the world. 

 

The origin of the word Pizza is uncertain. The food was invented in Naples about 200 years ago. It is the name for a special type of flatbread, made with special dough. Flatbreads, like the focaccia from Liguria, have been known for a very long time. Pizzas need to be baked at temperatures of 200–250 °C. Hardly any household oven could reach such temperatures at the time. Because of this, the pizza was made at home, and then given to the town bakery to bake. In June 1889, the Neapolitan chef Raffaele Esposito created the Pizza Margherita in honour of Queen Margherita. It was the first pizza to include cheese.  

 

There are several styles of Italian pizza. Neapolitan pizza dough consists of Italian flour, natural yeast, salt and water. The dough must be kneaded by hand or with a low-speed mixer. After the rising process, the dough must be formed by hand without the help of a rolling pin or other mechanical device. It may be no more than 3 mm (1/8 in) thick. The Lazio style pizza is popular in Rome, as well as in many other parts of Italy, and is available in two different types.  The take-away variety is cooked in long, rectangular baking pans and is relatively thick (1–2 cm). The restaurant variety is served in a dish in its traditional round shape. White pizza uses no tomato sauce, often substituting pesto or dairy products such as sour cream. Most commonly, its toppings consist only of mozzarella and ricotta cheese drizzled with olive oil and basil and garlic. 

 

Pizza was brought to the United States with Italian immigrants in the late nineteenth century, and first appeared in areas where Italian immigrants concentrated. The country's first pizzeria (place that focuses in pizza), Lombardi's, opened in 1905. Veterans returning from World War II's Italian Campaign were a ready market for pizza. Since then, pizza consumption in the U.S. has increased. Pizza chains such as Domino's, Pizza Hut, and Papa John's, have outlets all over the nation. Thirteen percent of the U.S. population eats pizza on any given day. 