Public transportation is the transport of passengers. Passengers don't need their own cars or other vehicles. Most public transportation lets many people travel at the same time.

Ships have carried passengers since prehistoric times. That is the first kind of public transportation. From the 17th century boats carried people along the canals. 

Stagecoaches traveled a fixed route between coaching inns. There were buses in Paris in 1662. Around 1826 horsedrawn omnibuses operated in Nantes, France. They started in London in July 1829. Omnibuses were carts with seats for passengers to sit. The first passenger horse-drawn rail vehicle opened in 1806. It ran along the Swansea and Mumbles Railway. From 1825 steam railroads began carrying passengers between towns in England. Ferries (public boats) also became bigger and more numerous then.

The main vehicles for public transportation are buses, trolleybuses, trams and trains. Trams were first used in the late 1860s and used to be pulled by horses. Now trams are electric and run on a line of cable. Buses drive on the road, like cars do. Trolleybuses are like buses, but they use electricity from two wires above the road. Trains run on a track and are very fast. Many places use trams and trains as a form of public transportation.

Many people who do not have cars use buses, trolleybuses, trams to go places near their house, and they use trains to go places far away. Long-distance transportation is usually by airline or train or other public transportation. Local transportation is more often private.

When using public transportation people may need a ticket or card to be able to get on. A timetable tells them when they come, since they can only go when and where the transport is going.

Public transportation is good for the environment. When many people use the same vehicle, fewer cars are on the road. Fewer cars make less pollution. Cost is low, because it is very cheap to catch public transportation every day, which is why even people who own a car often use public transportation.
